# Article:

## Check commits for more!
https://www.engadget.com/transportation/evs/nissan-made-a-nifty-solar-panel-system-for-its-sakura-ev-061235566.html?src=rss

Transportation

EVs

Nissan made a nifty solar panel system for its Sakura EV

It generates 500W when fully extended and can add 1,864 miles of driving range annually.

Steve Dent

Reporter

Fri, October 24, 2025 at 6:12 AM UTC

NISSAN DESIGN

As we've seen with Toyota's Prius Prime, putting a solar panel on a car's roof is a nifty idea but can only gain you a few free miles a day due to the limited size. With a new prototype of its hyper-popular Sakura "kei" EV, Nissan has the answer: a bigger solar panel roof called the AO-Solar Extender. When fully stretched out on a sunny day, it can add about 1,864 miles of driving distance a year and power multiple accessories.

The panel works whether you're driving or parked. When extended (in "solar pompadour" mode as my colleague put it), it generates 500 watts on sunny days. At the same time, it helps block sunlight from the windshield, "reducing cabin temperature and lowering the need for air conditioning power consumption," Nissan noted.

NISSAN DESIGN

When retracted in driving mode, it still pumps out 300 watts in the sun (80 watts in the rain), quite a bit more than the 185 watts max generated by the Prius Prime's solar roof. And if you're worried about aerodynamics, Nissan said the roof is designed to minimize drag and integrate well with the Sakura's design.

It's not just a fun exercise, as Nissan said it's planning to launch the AO-Solar Extender commercially, with details to follow at a later date. It could be a useful accessory on the Sakura, which has been Japan's most popular EV since 2022 thanks to its "sufficient" range, cute kei looks and spacious interior. The automaker will show it off at the Japan Mobility Show starting on October 30, 2025.

Advertisement

About our ads